
<p>I disagree with the notion that a scientific approach and a humanitarian approach should not or cannot be used together. I think that a combination of an objective and subjective approach might lead to a deeper understanding of the truth. Combining science with the humanities is not meant to replace one with the other. The purpose of combining them is because one can elevate the other.</p>
 <p> Psychology is a humanities field and that does make sense. An objective approach won’t help an individual patient. Prof. Kagan of psychology at Harvard said “An adolescent’s feeling of shame because a parent is uneducated, unemployed, and alcoholic, cannot be translated into words or phrases that name only the properties of genes, proteins, neurons, neurotransmitters, hormones, receptors, and circuits without losing a substantial amount of meaning” in an interview regarding psychology. Prof. Kagan’s point of view is one that comes up frequently in this debate, and it misses the point of combining the two approaches. While quantitative data may not help that specific adolescent it could help doctors better understand what it is that adolescent is experiencing especially with children who have communication issues. A study done on psychotherapy patients revealed that “ninety-three percent of respondents reported having lied to their therapists” this lying heavily hinders the speed at which a therapist can identify what is the patient is suffering from and how they could help them best. But if that therapist somehow had access to brain scans that could tell them when a patient is lying or how they feel about a certain topic without being able to lie, then I believe that would improve the quality of mental help provided.</p>
 <p> Matthew Jockers, a DH researcher for Washington State University used a strip mining metaphor to explain the importance of using a subjective to explain the objective. “[W]hat is needed now is the equivalent of open-pit mining or hydraulicking. [. . .] Close reading, traditional searching, will continue to reveal nuggets, while the deeper veins lie buried beneath the mass of gravel layered above. What are required are the methods for aggregating and making sense out of both the nuggets and the tailings [. . .] [to] exploit the trammel of computation to process, condense, deform, and analyze the deeper strata from which these nuggets were born, to unearth, for the first time, what these corpora really contain.” This metaphor of showing why the humanities is helpful with objective information. Facts and objective information tend to be fairly one dimensional. In 2015 The Sun which is the UK’s most popular newspaper had an article that said 1 in 5 British Muslims sympathize with jihadists. And this was an actual survey so it is factual information and hence must be true, correct? Well not exactly, what the misleading statistic failed to provide was context which is where a subjective approach comes in.  What the respondents of the survey meant was not support but actual sympathy, for people that have been brainwashed and misguided into following a terrorist organization. Respondents felt bad for these people as they likely ended up in horrible conditions or dead. </p>
 <p>  Professor of Computer Science Richard Lachman at Ryerson University wrote an article about including the humanities in STEM,   “I saw the best minds of my generation spend their lives optimizing microseconds out of their high-frequency trading algorithms, or devising routing-algorithms for drone-delivered burritos.
Are these the biggest problems for our society?”  While Prof Lachman does advocate for collaboration, it only limits the humanities to a supporting role but humanities is not just about ethics, values, and morals. It is about the why as well. A student of the humanities would not just look at the ethics of creating burrito drones, they would look at why they are being created as well. Looking at the way why things are is the core of the humanities. Humanities attempt to answer everything from the largest “why do we exist” to even the smallest “ why did I not do this assignment on time”. When you look at the importance of why that drone was created you can design it better, think of an alternative, and think of what other problems it could fix. My favorite example of this is the internet, the internet was created for the US military and the reason why it was created is that the military needed faster more reliable communication. Well, that is an issue regular people had as well and so the internet was given to the public. Asking how is the sciences of thinking and asking why is the humanities way of thinking, but only when you ask how and why can you get the best most complete answer to your question. </p>

<iframe style='width: 800px; height: 800px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/Trends/?query=digital&query=humanities&query=computing&query=work&query=like&corpus=c9d23a88201fc23eaeefb8408329092e'></iframe>
 
Sources:
Lachman, Richard. “STEAM Not STEM: Why Scientists Need Arts Training.” The Conversation, 11 Nov. 2019, theconversation.com/steam-not-stem-why-scientists-need-arts-training-89788.
Tavris, Carol. “Psychology and Its Discontents.” The Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones & Company, 25 Apr. 2012, www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052702304537904577277760260276148.
Blanchard, Matt, and Barry A. Farber. “Lying in Psychotherapy: Why and What Clients Don’t Tell Their Therapist about Therapy and Their Relationship.” Counselling Psychology Quarterly, vol. 29, no. 1, 2015, pp. 90–112.
Jockers, Matthew L. Macroanalysis: Digital Methods and Literary History. Urbana: U of Illinois P, 2013.
Kirschenbaum, “What is ‘Digital Humanities,’ and Why Are They Saying Such Terrible Things about It?” differences 25.1 (2014): 46-63.
 

  
  

